- [Instructor] It's helpful to see the GitOps
principles in action.
So I'm going to demonstrate the first two principles using a
tool named Argo CD.
Argo CD is a continuous delivery tool in the GitOps space.
It's used for operations of your containerized application
on Kubernetes.
Let's log in and take a look around.
So I'm going to enter my credentials and upon logging in
you'll notice one of the best features of Argo CD.
It has an intuitive user interface that makes it easy
to observe GitOps workflows as they unfold.
Now, currently we're not managing any applications
on Argo CD, but we can use our first two GitOps principles,
to get Argo CD connected to the systems desired state stored
declaratively within Git.
To do that, we click on the gear icon
within the sidebar to enter Argo settings.
Here we can configure a connection to a Git repository,
our single source of truth that holds our systems
declarative configuration.
That configuration is going to determine what resources
are deployed on the Kubernetes cluster.
So click on the repositories option.
And then within the repository section,
we're going to use the HTTPS option and you'll notice that
it expects us to provide the URL of a Git Repository
that holds those Kubernetes manifests.
Now, this should sound familiar.
If we navigate back to GitHub,
you'll remember that our environment repository holds
the infrastructure code that we forked
earlier in the course.
Now to spotlight the first GitOps principle,
let's take a peek at one of the Kubernetes manifests stored
inside the Argo directory.
So here you can see three manifests and if we inspect the
deployment.yaml file, you'll notice that it declaratively
stores the description of our system.
It describes what image we'd like to run in the pods
and how many instances of that image.
Now, if we navigate back a directory,
we'll see the three other manifests and together
those manifests make up the desired state of our system.
Let's hop up one more directory and grab the URL
to this repository because we'll need this URL
to connect Argo CD to the GitHub Repo
and Argo CD is going to treat this repository
as the single source of truth for our application.
All right, so back in Argo CD,
we can go ahead and paste the URL of the repository.
Now, since that repository is public,
we do not need to enter any credentials,
but if this were a private GitHub Repository,
you would need to enter your GitHub ID
and a personal access token.
Don't get tripped up here by using your GitHub password,
that's a common mistake.
All right, so go ahead and click on Connect
to create the connection to the repository.
And that illustrates our second principle, because that
Git Repository serves as the desired state.
It's the single source of truth for what we want
to run on this cluster.
We'll only build out the system based on the desired state
stored in this repository.
Okay, so that covers the first two principles of declarative
configuration and Git as the single source of truth.
In the next lesson,
we'll pick up from here and see how the remaining
GitOps principles play into the runtime state of the system.